hi I'm Leslie rogowski here with another
doodle beads today I'm going to teach
you how to do flat herringbone
herringbone like many other popular
stitches starts with a ladder you make a
ladder stitch and then you build up rose
like the swatch here now i'm going to
show you in a drawing how to do your
ladder and start the next row we're
going to go over to the drawing now
you're going to pick up bead one and two
and go back through bead one and down
through bead to and that circular motion
is the basis for the ladder stitch now
you're going to come up through be three
and down through be two up through bead
three again very easy repeat that along
the row pick up bead for up through be
three down through bead for feed five
down through beat for up through be five
down through bead six up through bead
five down through bead six now you see
that your thread is coming down from
bead six and you want to start adding
rows so you're going to have to come up
through bead five and cross over to pick
up bead seven let me show you how that's
done here's my first ladder I'm going to
come up through bead five careful not to
get the tailstock now I'm going to pick
up the next two beads now I'm picking up
beads impairs only the first row of
herringbone is done in single beads
after that you're going to work in pairs
and you're going to create what are
called stacks of pairs and herringbone
i'm using size eight beads you can see
them on a dark thread normally you want
to use bead a thread that is going to
match or contrast now watch what happens
i'm going to come up through bead five
and cross over
Ruby 7 my goal is to come down through
bead ate like this so you can see that
i'm going to be ready to start my next
row now because i only have one row on
here your second row is a little
different i'm going to go down through
bead five again and come up in the
middle i'm using two colors so you can
see the stripes so now you have the
first stack added i'm going to pick up
to green beads one two and i'm going to
go down through bead three towards
myself and one thing you should know
when your seed bead weaving beads do not
behave you have to tame them so you want
to make sure that you push them in then
you're going to come up through bead to
pick up the next two beads go down
through your first bead and there you
have it now to turn around you're going
to do the same thing that you did before
where you're going to come up through
the second bead and squiggle over so
you're in place to add to the stacks now
you're going to be able to do some
wonderful samples just by changing the
size of the beads on my first sample I
used size eight hexes and size eight
metallic triangles and you can see the
difference in the look of the piece of
bead work in the second sample I tried
all different sizes and you can see just
the same stitch same number of beads
across so here's a finished piece where
I used 1.3 size cylinder beads and it
just shows the variety in herringbone
stitch that you can make once you learn